[\-\--]{dir="rtl"}

layout: post

title: Test - Sample prep Fixation embedding and polishing protocol
follow Mass et al 2017 PNAS

category: \[ Fixation, Microscopy, spectroscopy \]

tags: \[ Coral, microscopy \]

[\-\--]{dir="rtl"}

[\###]{dir="rtl"} Standard Marine Fixation

[]{dir="rtl"}

[\###]{dir="rtl"} Chemicals Needed[:]{dir="rtl"}

[10]{dir="rtl"} ml ampoules 16% Formaldehyde -EMS Sciences Cat #15710

Sodium Cacodylate Trihydrate bioxtra10 g - Sigma Cat #C4945
[]{dir="rtl"}

Na2CO3

Epofix []{dir="rtl"}

[\###]{dir="rtl"} To Make Up Solutions[:]{dir="rtl"}

[22]{dir="rtl"} g/L Na2CO3 in water filtered 0.2um

[0.05]{dir="rtl"}M Na Cacodylate Buffer in 22g/L Na2CO3

Add 10.7 gms Cacodylic acid (to 1000 ml 22g/L Na2CO3)

[\###]{dir="rtl"} To Make Up Fixative[:]{dir="rtl"}

[2%]{dir="rtl"} Formaldehyde in Sodium Cacodylate Buffered Sea-Water
Fixative

Add 10 ml ampoule of 16% Formaldehyde to 70 ml of the made up buffer
[]{dir="rtl"}

[\###]{dir="rtl"} Fixation Steps

[1.]{dir="rtl"} Place samples in fresh Formaldehyde fixative and keep it
at RT 0.5 hrs

[2.]{dir="rtl"} Rinse with buffer (2 changes at 5 mins each)

[3.]{dir="rtl"} Dehydrate in 50,60,70, in 1g/L of Na2CO3 in 0.002M Na
Cacodylate Buffer, 15 mins for each step

[4. 80,90,]{dir="rtl"} in 0.5 g/L Na2CO3 in 0.002M Na Cacodylate Buffer
and 100% x2 Ethanol

[5.]{dir="rtl"} Vacuum the sample for 3 min to evaporate the
ethanol[.]{dir="rtl"}

[6.]{dir="rtl"} Usually we make up the resin (follow kit directions)
when the samples are in 90% ethanol[.]{dir="rtl"}

[7.]{dir="rtl"} Transfer into embedding resin (3 changes at 5 mins
vacuum)

[\###]{dir="rtl"} Embedding Steps

[1.]{dir="rtl"} Measure amount of \[Epofix
resin\](https://www.agarscientific.com/epofix) needed in a Dixie paper
cup. Usually 8-10 grams is enough for one sample[.]{dir="rtl"}

[2.]{dir="rtl"} Calculate 3/25 amount of the resin to be the amount of
hardener to add. Zero the balance and add the hardener into the cup.
Take the cup and go upstairs[.]{dir="rtl"}

[3.]{dir="rtl"} Stir the mixture with a glass rod vigorously and make
lots of small bubbles to ensure proper mixing. It usually takes 2
minutes

[4.]{dir="rtl"} Place the cup in the desiccator (take the rod out) and
pump it down for 5 minutes, then vent, and repeat 3 times. When venting,
open the valve to \~2/3 of the full valve. There should be some bubbles
only the surface by the end of this stage[.]{dir="rtl"}

[5.]{dir="rtl"} Take the epoxy out of the desiccator. Use a plastic
pipet to drop the epoxy into the mold with the sample in it. Avoid
bubbles as much as possible. Put enough epoxy to cover the entire
sample. You can use the plastic pipet to remove some bubbles if
needed[.]{dir="rtl"}

[6.]{dir="rtl"} Take the mold with epoxy filled and put it in the
desiccator and repeat step 4 (pump 5 mins each for 3 times). After 3
times of pumping, leave the sample inside the desiccator for 12-14 hrs
to cure[.]{dir="rtl"}

[\###]{dir="rtl"} Polishing Steps

[1.]{dir="rtl"} Start with the coarse sandpaper. Rinse with 22g/L Na2CO3
solution. Grind the back of the sample to make it flat first. Then grind
the sample side until the desired surface is exposed. Add 22g/L Na2CO3
solution during the grinding to keep the sandpaper wet. Press the sample
with suitable force but keep in mind that the coarse sandpaper can
remove materials very fast[.]{dir="rtl"}

[2.]{dir="rtl"} After the desired surface is approximately exposed,
change to the fine sandpaper. Same as the previous step, add 22g/L
Na2CO3 solution during the grinding. This step should remove all the
large scratches from the last step, and the sample surface should appear
foggy at the end of this step[.]{dir="rtl"}

[3.]{dir="rtl"} After grinding, move on to polishing with aluminum oxide
particles. Change the sandpaper to the felt pad and add 0.3 µm Al2O3
suspension with Na2CO3 solution. Use hand to spread it across the felt
and start polishing. Add 22g/L Na2CO3 solution during the grinding.
Moderate force is important: if the force is too small, it will be
difficult to remove the scratches from grinding; if the force is too
large, alumina particles can get stuck in the sample and create pits on
the surface. Polish until a shiny mirror surface is observed and no
obvious scratches can be found[.]{dir="rtl"}

[4.]{dir="rtl"} Move on to the final polishing with 0.05 µm Al2O3
suspension. Same procedure as the previous step, but remember to change
the felt to the one for fine polishing and don't mix up with the
previous pad. It's difficult to judge if this step is done by naked eye,
so you can use the microscope to help. Usually if there are no scratches
under 20× it should be good enough[.]{dir="rtl"}

[5.]{dir="rtl"} After polishing, clean the sample with a series of
wipes. Prepare 4 wipes with the following order: wet with Na2CO3
solution, dry, wet with ethanol, dry. After polishing with 0.05 µm
Al2O3, clean the sample through these wipes as the order above. Gently
wipe once on each wipe. If there are watermarks or weird patterns on the
surface, it means that the cleaning was not done properly so you need to
repeat this step[.]{dir="rtl"}
